From The New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroeff.
>> [music]
>> This is The Daily.
>> An unusual disagreement has broken out
between the President of the United
States and the Pope. This week, after
President Trump lashed out at him, Pope
Leo the XIV openly [music] took on the
administration, setting up the most
direct confrontation between a head of
state and the Pope in modern history.
[music]
Today, my colleague Motoko Rich explains
why Trump cares so much about what the
Pope thinks and why it matters that two
[music] of the most powerful Americans
in the world are so deeply at odds.
>> [music]
>> It's Thursday, April 16th.
Motoko, you have just embarked with the
Pope on this tour of several African
countries. You are traveling on the
papal plane with him, surrounded by top
Vatican officials at this really tense
moment in which the American President
is attacking the first American Pope.
So, just set the scene for me. Where are
you and what is the feeling right now
among the papal entourage?
>> Well, we're on the third day of Pope
Leo's first trip as Pope to Africa and
we just came from Algeria and landed
this afternoon in Cameroon and I'm
currently in the capital of Cameroon in
a hotel. You might hear a little
background noise because I'm in the
press center because that's where the
best Wi-Fi is.
>> Got it.
>> The mood here, it's an interesting mix
because of course the people who are
waiting for the Pope's visit are super
excited. Like we were driving on the
road from the airport to the hotel, we
just seen tens of thousands of people
lining the road. So, for them this is an
incredibly important pastoral visit and
yet in the bubble of the papal plane,
there's this great awareness of this
huge rift that has opened up between the
Pope and the President of the United
States due to some very public attacks
by the President on social media and
then following up by the Vice President
in various interviews. And this is a
particularly stunning moment because
this Pope has during most of the first
year of his papacy been very
mild-mannered and attempted to create a
sense of unity. He's not been
confrontational and yet on Monday we saw
him kind of fight back.
>> Okay, let's get into the whole story of
this rift. Walk us through how it
started.
>> So
from the moment that Pope Leo was
elected because he was the first Pope
from the United States, there was some
expectation is he going to be sort of
the anti-Trump? Pope Francis'
predecessor had been perceived as this
more left-leaning Pope.
>> Right.
>> He had famously gone up against Trump in
a number of ways in terms of calling him
not Christian, going to the border of
Mexico to meet with migrants. So there
has been precedent for a rift between a
previous Pope and the President, but
Pope Leo is really making an effort to
kind of calm things down. So he would
make very generalized [music] comments
speaking out against war, speaking on
behalf of peace, speaking on protection
for the environment. But then a sense
that he might have some ideological
differences with the President in the
same way that Francis had started to
creep in when he talked about migrants.
>> Mhm.
>> He encouraged the US Council on Bishops
when they condemned the President's
migration policies.
>> [music]
>> And then as he has spoken out about war
it has been perceived by the Trump
administration as more and more a direct
attack. And certainly after the war
began against Iran, the Pope has
increasingly been making more pointed
comments.
>> [music]
>> What I hear you saying is that there was
some latent tension bubbling in the
background between the Pope and the
Trump administration before this moment,
but that the war sounds like it was a
turning point. So, how did that unfold?
>> So, soon after the war began, the Pope
started making comments
>> Brothers and sisters, I'm praying
I'm following with deep concern what's
happening in
the Middle East and
Iran in these dramatic moments.
>> Which could sound general, but could
also sound pointed about the need to
return to dialogue, abhorrence for war,
the need for peace.
>> I ask all the parties involved
to take up the moral responsibility to
uh end the spiral of violence
before it becomes an irreparable chasm.
>> And I think that started to be perceived
by the Trump administration as
potentially a direct attack, but he was
not naming either President Trump or any
other member of the cabinet. But then,
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth
>> May almighty God continue to bless our
troops in this fight.
And again to the American people, please
pray for them.
>> exhorted the American public
>> every day
on bended knee
>> to get down on bended knee and pray for
military victory, and he said, I think
in the name of Jesus Christ.
>> with your family
in your schools
in your churches in the name of Jesus
Christ.
>> We should say that that is a pretty
unusual thing to say for a defense
secretary. You know, the administration
has given all kinds of different goals
and justifications for this war, but
that comment did stand out.
>> Absolutely, because, you know, in the
United States we talk about separation
of church and state. So, for a
high-ranking government official to
invoke a particular religious figure
to justify an American war is highly
unusual.
And then the Pope responded where in a
homily on Palm Sunday, the week before
Easter, he said that Jesus does not
listen to the prayers of those who wage
war.
And he talked about, you know, what we
do and do not do in in Jesus' name. So,
he was clearly disagreeing with what
Pete Hegseth was saying.
>> Do you think that Hegseth's words
invoking God in this way may have
provoked him to be more outspoken than
perhaps he would have been?
>> Obviously, I can't know what is going on
inside the head of the Pope, but we know
that peace is a top priority for this
Pope and he has talked consistently
about how he opposes war. His Christmas
message, his message to the Cardinals at
the opening of the year, all of them
carried very strong anti-war messages.
So, this is not coming from nowhere, but
I think you're right that once Pete
Hegseth invoked the name of Jesus Christ
in asking for a victory for the American
side, he was basically saying he was
asking God to take sides. I think that
really upset the Pope.
>> Okay, so the Pope responds with this
homily. Things are starting to ratchet
up. When do we get to the breaking point
here?
>> Well, then a week later, the President
threatened to annihilate the
civilization of Iran overnight.
>> Right, this was in a Truth Social post.
>> Yes, absolutely. And in response to
those remarks, the Pope became clearly
much more direct. He said to call for
the annihilation of a civilization is
unacceptable. And he even exhorted
citizens in concerned countries to call
their congressman, call their political
leaders, and call for the end to war and
all wars. And so that seemed a pretty
extraordinary. This was no longer kind
of generally peace be with you. We must
end all wars. This was really responding
to the particular language of the
president.
>> He seems to be starting to really wade
in here to the fray.
>> Yes, absolutely. So it definitely felt
like the tension was ratcheting up. And
I think maybe some people are kind of
waiting to see at this point whether the
president would lash out because it's
sort of not at all extraordinary for the
president to lash out against his
opponents, but
>> Right.
>> there didn't seem to be a response. But
then
>> Is this a just war?
>> No. Under Catholic teaching, this is not
a just war.
>> This past Sunday, three very
high-ranking cardinals from the United
States, so that means high-level
leadership of the Catholic Church, went
on 60 Minutes and they underscored
completely the Pope's anti-war message.
>> We're dehumanizing the victims of war by
turning the suffering of people and the
killing of children and our own soldiers
into entertainment.
>> You called it sickening.
>> It is sickening.
>> So we of course don't know if that is
what set off the president, but in Rome
we all woke up early in the morning
getting ready to board the flight, and
instead what we saw was this
through social posts that the president
had posted literally minutes before we
were all waking up where he attacked the
Pope as weak on crime and a tool of the
radical left.
>> Right, I remember this post was very
long. He called him
terrible on foreign policy. There were a
lot of insults in it.
>> Yes, it went on and on. I mean you did
have to click on read more to to see the
whole thing, and it was very specific.
He even talked about how he let
preferred his brother. uh the Pope has
two brothers, one of whom apparently is
a Trump supporter and visited the White
House after his election. So, it was a
very extraordinary attack on the Pope.
>> Okay, this post is up. You are about to
get on the plane with the Pope. What
happens?
>> Well, of course we were all shocked by
this because we were planning, you know,
do we have our vaccines? Do we have our
malaria pills? Do we have enough uh
clothes to get through a 11-day trip?
Rather, now it suddenly become a story
all about Trump the Leo.
And at the airport, we're all talking,
how can we get the Pope to comment on
this? Because traditionally, the
protocol on the plane is that the Pope
comes back, makes a few nice welcoming
remarks, and then he walks the aisles
and shakes the hand of each journalist.
And the convention is that we don't ask
him questions during that moment. It's
more about just making small talk and
meet and greet. But, of course, this
moment was an opportunity we didn't want
to lose. Once he started walking up and
down the aisles, many of us asked him
questions about his response to that
Truth Social post. And
>> I have no fear, neither with Trump
administration, nor I'm speaking out
loudly about witnessing the gospel.
>> He was not afraid of answering. He
opened up by naming him and saying he
was not afraid of the Trump
administration. He made it very clear
who he was responding to.
>> Don't want to get into a debate with
him. I don't think that the message of
the gospel is meant to be abused in the
way that some people are doing. And and
I will continue to speak out loudly
against war.
>> Right, this was a pretty forceful
response. And I remember when I saw it,
the thing that struck me was actually
what he said about how someone had to
stand up for all these innocent people
who were being killed. It was almost
like he was sort of taking the mantle of
moral authority and saying, this is my
position. This is what I'm here to do.
>> Absolutely. I mean, I think he said
something along the lines of this is
what I'm here to do. This is my job to
speak about the gospel's teachings. And
one of the things that he has said all
along is that as Catholics and as
humans, we should all stand up for the
most vulnerable among us. So, he's very
clearly sees himself as an important
moral voice in the world.
>> But on the other hand, I know this was
extraordinary in your world. But in the
context of American politics in 2026, I
have to say the Pope's comments, they
sound pretty mild overall. We're used to
flamethrowers. And so, I'm wondering why
is this such a big deal?
>> Well, I think
part of it is that he's not a
flamethrower. That Pope Leo is, unlike
Francis, not someone who's necessarily
eager or willing to engage in fights for
the sake of it. I mean, I don't think
that's a totally fair assessment of
Francis's personality, but he's very
colorful. He was willing to be pointed
and barbed and speak off the cuff and
make dramatic gestures. And, you know,
frankly, that was one of the
conservative criticisms of him was that
they thought he was more performative
than anything else. And Leo is the
direct opposite of that. He is very
quiet. He's very mild-mannered. He
sticks to his prepared remarks. This is
not necessarily someone you think of as
spontaneous, always up for a fight. And
so, the fact that someone who has that
reputation and temperament is willing to
say the things that he said, that he's
not afraid of the Trump administration,
that he's speaking up for the people who
are most vulnerable at a moment when
he's been attacked, he's sort of not
taking the bait in a way. I think that
almost makes his
speech more powerful. It's certainly a
contrast. Like if someone is always
doing this, it's hard for it to stand
out, but when someone who rarely does
this suddenly does it, I think it really
does stand out.
>> And it's worth saying, right, that the
Pope is also extremely popular.
>> Absolutely. I think he was very shrewd,
if you will, at the beginning of his
papacy, that he took his time. He didn't
make a lot of broad gestures, but some
of the gestures he did actually endeared
him to the conservatives who had been
alienated by Francis. So, on the moment
when he came out on the balcony, he was
wearing the red mozzetta, this cape that
Francis never wore. So, that showed he
was respectful of the papal traditions.
He speaks Latin. He allowed one of the
more conservative United States
cardinals to say mass in Latin in St.
Peter's Basilica. I mean, that's the
heart of the Roman Catholic Church right
there. So, he's really kind of extended
an olive branch to the conservatives. He
showed that he doesn't want to be
partisan within the Catholic Church,
much less in politics.
>> He's been a uniter among Catholics,
whereas Francis was willing to kind of
say provocative things. Leo has been
much more interested in smoothing things
over with conservatives who didn't take
kindly to some of Francis's more
unorthodox actions.
>> Absolutely. He seems to really take
seriously that he is the Pope for
everyone, and that's why he speaks to
everyone.
>> [music]
>> So, given that he's not been a partisan
Pope thus far, that is why when he
actually went up against Trump, that it
really felt like a very significant
moment.
So, as if things weren't tense enough,
we land and we turn on our phones and we
see that the president has now posted an
AI-generated image of himself that
clearly looks like he's trying to appear
as Jesus Christ. [music]
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back. [music]
Let's talk about the reaction to all of
this, to Trump's attacks on the Pope,
the Pope's response, and then this very
provocative image that Trump posts of
himself as a Jesus figure.
>> So, I think the response to President
Trump's attack on the Pope, certainly
from Catholics, was pretty outraged.
They thought this was very inappropriate
for the President of the United States
to attack, you know, who they
[clears throat] consider to be the vicar
of Christ, the leader of their church, a
spiritual leader who should be above all
politicians. There was certainly a lot
of pushback from around the world, even
including from Iran, saying that this
was unacceptable and rude. Prime
Minister Meloni of Italy said that
Trump's attack on the Pope were
completely unacceptable. So, there's
definitely been pushback around the
world, not just among the Catholic
faithful, but political leaders as well.
>> [gasps]
>> As for the image that President Trump
posted after attacking
the Pope, he looked like he was trying
to look like Jesus Christ. He's got a
light in his hand. He's blessing a
patient who looks very sick, and there's
light radiating out of the patient's
head, and it looks like he's up in
heaven with these very angel-like
figures in the sky.
>> I want to show you an image that
President Trump posted on his Truth
Social yesterday. What do you make of
this?
>> That's disgusting.
>> And this really sparked outrage, and
that outrage seemed much broader. It was
not just Catholics who were upset about
it, but many, many Christians, including
evangelical Christians.
>> As a Christian, I was very offended.
>> That's a disgrace. I mean, how
egotistical can you possibly be? I'm
ashamed that he would actually do that.
The man I voted for and trust.
>> Jesus Christ is my Lord and savior, and
that right there is I mean, that's I I I
don't really have words for that.
>> I thought that was blasphemy. [music]
>> That is blasphemy in its purest form.
>> There seemed to be a much broader sense
that this was bordering on sacrilegious,
not just inappropriate or unacceptable.
>> You're mocking my Lord and savior Jesus
Christ. [music] He's mocking him.
>> It shows a flippancy towards what's
really essential and important about our
relationship with God, and God will not
be mocked.
>> Mr. President, did you post that picture
of yourself depicted as Jesus Christ?
>> Well, it wasn't a picture. It [music]
was me. I I did post it, and I thought
it was me as a doctor.
>> President Trump, it should be said,
claimed [music] that he did not think
that he was trying to make himself look
like Jesus, but that he was trying to
look like a doctor who helped people.
>> And [music] it had to do with Red Cross.
It's a Red Cross worker there, which we
support.
>> But he said it was
a picture of him as a doctor? [music]
What?
>> Yeah, I was wondering what the people
that you're surrounded by right now on
this papal trip made of that uh argument
by Trump. Did they buy that?
>> No, I have not heard anyone who thinks
he looks like a doctor. I think everyone
got the image as alluding to him as a
Jesus figure.
>> Okay. So, I want to ask about a
particular group of Catholics, and that
is the Catholics inside the Trump
administration, and particularly about
J.D. Vance, the vice president, the most
prominent Catholic in the
administration. What has he said?
>> Well, that's where the surprise
continues.
>> So, as a Catholic,
what does it feel like to be,
>> [laughter]
>> you know, in the middle of that?
>> I thought it was going to be easy
questions.
>> Then it
>> looks like the administration really is
doubling down on its antagonistic
approach to the Pope.
>> said that God is never on the side of
those who wield the sword.
>> He seemed like he was almost schooling
the Pope on Catholic theology and making
an argument about the theory of a just
war.
>> How can you say that God is never on the
side of those who wield the sword? Was
God on the side of the Americans who
liberated France from the Nazis? Was God
on the side of the Americans who
liberated Holocaust camps and liberated
those who had survived the Holocaust?
>> And clearly the Vice President, as has
the President, are trying to argue that
the attack on Iran is a just war in a
Christian sense, not just in a political
or moral sense.
>> You know, each of us has our own role.
I'm the Vice President of the United
States.
The Pope's job is to preach the gospel.
>> And then he said that the Pope should
just stick to matters that concern the
church.
>> I think it's very, very important for
the Pope to be careful when he talks
about matters of theology. If you're
going to opine on matters of theology,
you've got to be careful, you've got to
make sure it's anchored in the truth,
and that's
>> peculiar for the Vice President of the
United States, a recent convert to
Catholicism, to be trying to lecture the
Pope, who has been a Catholic all his
life and is the leader of the Catholic
Church, on Catholic theology, but that
seems to be what he is doing.
>> Right, it is kind of stunning to hear
any politician try to tell the Pope how
to speak about theology.
I do think that Vance's argument here,
if I understand it, is that, "Look, this
war is moral." He specifically said,
"You know, wouldn't the Pope have
blessed American fighters liberating
France from the Nazis?"
I'm wondering, what do you think the
Pope's response to that would be? I know
you're not inside his head, but help me
understand what you think his position
is.
>> I think the Pope would likely say
something like this war does not qualify
as a just war, and that he is joined by
many global leaders who say this is a
war of choice, not a war of necessity.
There isn't a sense that the war is
actually about liberating innocent
people, and the Pope has made the point
someone needs to speak up for the
innocent people who are getting killed
in this war.
>> And has the Pope weighed in on the
argument that this Iranian regime has
been extremely repressive toward its own
people, and that regime change would
benefit them, that that's what the Trump
administration is trying to do?
>> I don't know if he's directly weighed in
on that point specifically about Iran,
but more broadly, he's he's not saying
that he's against
just moral actions. He's just saying
he's against war. So, he keeps
emphasizing dialogue as a way to get to
the goals. It doesn't seem like he's
saying, "Who cares about the protesters?
Who cares about the nuclear weapon?"
He's just saying there are other ways to
get to these goals.
>> And what about Vance's claim that this
is just not the Pope's realm to engage
in politics? Obviously, this is the Pope
weighing in on a war, not on the US
midterms, for example. But, what do you
make of that criticism?
>> [sighs]
>> Well,
I think in some respects, this probably
is a fair criticism for a politician or
a government leader to say, "Don't
meddle in our internal decisions. We're
a sovereign nation." And the Vatican
City is also of a sovereign state, by
the way.
But, I think in this case, the way the
Pope views it is that it's a very
fundamental principle of Christianity.
We are the peacemakers, and so I think
the Pope takes that very seriously. The
Trump administration, on the other hand,
seems to want to keep up the fight or it
almost seems like they're trying to
persuade the Pope. The president posted
again on social media that someone
should tell Leo about the 42,000
protesters who've died in Iran. Those
are not verified numbers as far as I
know,
but it's not like he's just sort of
saying, "Oh, Pope Leo is lame. He's weak
on crime again." He's really making an
argument, which I think is a slight
shift in tone, it seems.
>> Yeah, it does seem like they really care
about how this war is perceived and
about ensuring that it's perceived as
just, morally and in every other way.
>> Well, they're certainly trying to make a
case to persuade the American people.
This is not just about religion. This is
clearly something that's happening on
the political realm as well. But, in as
much as the Pope is the leader of a
group that represents something like at
over 50 million people in the United
States identify as Catholic, I think the
last figures show,
um they're an important constituency for
the president.
>> We've talked on the show, Motoko, about
how the justifications for this war from
the Trump administration have been a
little all over the place. A lot of the
messaging has basically been, "We are
trying to cause as much damage as
possible in Iran. We are winning, etc."
But, to the extent that they have
invoked moral justification to the
American public, it has been tied to
religious and specifically Christian
values. Trump invoked this Easter
miracle when that airman was rescued in
Iran. You know, Hegseth told people to
pray, as you said. And so,
I wonder if there is some real impact
for the administration of having that
argument be countered so forcefully by
the Pope?
>> He is the most recognized Christian
leader on Earth. That is a fact.
>> There are other Christian leaders, the
head of the Anglican Church, but he is
the most recognized. In fact, I think
it's probably fair to say that maybe
aside from the Dalai Lama, that he's the
most recognized spiritual leader on
Earth. And so to have him counter what
is one of their chief arguments for
going to war
so forcefully is very powerful and
perhaps threatening.
>> How much do you think it matters that
Pope Leo is an American? Like, how much
of a factor do you think that is for
Trump as he thinks about how to respond?
And as he processes this active and
ongoing criticism?
>> [gasps and sighs]
>> Well, I think the fact that
Pope Leo is from the United States
makes it difficult for the
administration to discount his views.
They cannot, like as they might with
Pope Francis or any other previous Pope,
say, "Look, this guy just doesn't get
us. We're different. Or this is how
American politics works." They can't
really say that with this Pope because
he's from the United States. He was born
in Chicago. He's from the Midwest, the
heartland. This is a guy who deeply
understands partisan politics in the
United States. He's much harder to
dismiss.
>> What about for the Pope himself? I know
when Pope Leo first became Pope, there
was this worry about whether his
Americanness
would drag him into politics in a way
that would be ugly and unseemly, not
something the church wanted. And now
here we are. We've arrived at that
point, it seems. So, do you think he is
considering his American identity when
he thinks about how to respond?
>> Well, like I said, I can't be inside the
Pope's head, and he is famously told the
press corps that every time you think
you know what I'm thinking, you don't.
That being said,
how could it not be part of his
thinking? He's a human being. He comes
from the United States. His family is
there.
>> [gasps]
>> However,
I do think he's already showing signs of
how he reacts, which is he said what he
had to say on the plane on Monday, but
he did come back to talk to us on the
flight from Algiers to the capital of
Cameroon, and he did not take questions
this time. He did not walk the aisles.
But he talked about how much joy he had
had in the visit in Algiers, and he
talked about being in a majority Muslim
country, and being in a place where we
could learn the lessons of unity, of
respecting difference, of living
together in peace. He definitely used
that word.
So, I think that he's sort of returning
to his oblique style where he talks
about his primary values, that he is
going to let that speak for itself.
>> He's not taking the bait, you're saying,
to once he's been dragged in stay there
in the muck. He's trying, it sounds
like, to rise above it again.
>> I mean, it's only been a few days, so I
don't want to read too much into that,
but this was a moment where we were
wondering, is he going to address these
comments?
The Pope could have responded, but he
didn't.
>> In politics, by the way, that's called
message discipline, which is not
something Trump has displayed very
often.
>> If there's one word we can use about
Pope Leo, it is definitely disciplined.
>> You know, it strikes me that in that,
whether Pope Leo likes it or not, he is
a very obvious foil for Trump. This may
not be something he wanted to claim,
being the anti-Trump, but now it seems
like maybe he can't avoid it.
>> [snorts]
>> I think whether he likes it or not is
absolutely accurate that most likely he
does not Again, I sound like I'm
speaking for him, but that is what
people who surround him, that is how
he's behaved from the beginning that he
didn't want this role.
But how one is perceived as a leader is
also important and I think he is aware
of that. And so if the moment has called
him to play this role, he seems willing
and certainly not afraid of stepping
into it.
>> From everything that you said, Motoko,
in describing the trajectory
of this rift between the Pope and the
President, it definitely seems as though
Trump in this case rolled out his
typical playbook for dealing with anyone
who criticizes him. You know, he called
the Pope names. He accused him of
literally the exact thing that you would
expect him to accuse a political
opponent of, being weak on crime, for
example.
This is like his go-to move for a
Democrat.
But Pope Leo is not that. He's the
leader of 1.4 billion Catholics around
the world who view him as the
representative of Jesus on Earth. And
the fallout is reflective of that.
>> Definitely. He's not a politician.
[laughter]
He's elected for life and he's not a
leader of a particular country. I mean,
in as much as he's head of state of
Vatican City, that's not really his
role. His role primarily as leader, as
you said, of these 1.4 billion Catholics
around the world and they're in every
country. I'm sure he thinks about
wanting to be a leader for everyone
rather than someone who is dividing the
Catholic Church.
I think he also I think it is fair to
say that he is
first and foremost a religious leader.
That is his job. That is his role. That
is his calling.
And so politics is something that
sometimes happens to him as much as that
he is engaging in.
In some ways the fight has been
unavoidable, not because he sought it
out, but because he's been consistent in
the values that he preaches and he
really sticks to his message about peace
and unity and using dialogue. That
message seems to have triggered the
Trump administration, which really
craves the approval of a Christian
leader to justify their actions, and the
fight has come to him.
>> Right. It seems like no matter how much
Trump wants the Pope's approval, he's
finding that he can't intimidate this
Pope to change his position
when he can with many other global
leaders.
>> [gasps]
>> Right. I mean, I think a lot of global
leaders up until very recently have
tried to appease the president in some
way by negotiating or compromising or
watering down their actual opinions to
keep him from getting angry because he
has the power to retaliate in tariffs or
withdrawing support or aid. He doesn't
really have that power over the Vatican.
He can't [music] unseat this leader. He
can't make him so unpopular that voters
vote him out. So,
in some ways, this is a a unique
situation in that this is not a leader
that can be intimidated, as you say.
>> [music]
>> And he has shown himself personally as
speaking forcefully and saying he's not
afraid.
>> [music]
>> Romaldo Toko, thank you so much. Good
luck on the rest of the trip.
>> [music]
>> Thanks so much.
>> On Wednesday, [music]
the chairman of the US Bishops' Doctrine
Committee pushed back against Vice
President Pence's comments about the
Pope, noting that [music] just wars are
those waged in defense against an
aggressor,
>> [snorts]
>> and saying that when Pope Leo speaks,
quote, he is not merely offering
opinions on theology. He is preaching
[music] the gospel.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back. [music]
>> Here's what else you need to know today.
The S&P 500 hit a record high on
Wednesday. [music]
It was a sign that Wall Street is pretty
optimistic that a permanent peace deal
in Iran is going [music] to be reached
soon.
The benchmark stock index is widely
watched across the world as [music] an
indicator of just how healthy the US
market really is.
The S&P had already erased all of the
losses that it took during the war in
Iran. And after Wednesday's gains, it's
actually [music] 2% higher than it was
before the fighting started in late
February.
And senior Pakistani mediators arrived
in Tehran on Wednesday for [music] talks
aimed at shoring up the ceasefire
between the US and Iran before it
expires next week.
Since the initial talks ended without a
deal on Sunday, the two sides [music]
have continued to exchange messages
through Pakistan.
They have yet to agree to another round
of negotiations, but White House press
secretary Caroline Levitt said the
administration felt optimistic [music]
that a deal could be reached.
Today's episode was produced by Shannon
Lynn, Michael Simon Johnson, and Jessica
Chung. It was edited [music] by Chris
Hackel and Paige Cowart. Contains music
by Alicia B Etoo and Pat McCusker.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
>> [music]
>> This episode was engineered by Alyssa
Moxley.
>> [music]
>> That's it for The Daily. I'm Natalie
Kitroeff. [music]
See you tomorrow.